>> Student: Prefetch is a webpack thing
that Gatsby is just configuring for you.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Prefetch
is a browser thing actually.
So it's a built-in, what's it called?
I know this, you can do a prefetch,
a preload, preconnect and a few others.
And each of these are, they're hints.
So they tell the browser, hey,
I'm going to load this page next, or
I'm going to need this resource soon.
And in doing that the browser
is able to kinda make calls, but
they're all done with really low priority.
So if you've got Data Saver turned
on It won't try, if you are trying
to download something else, it will put
that thing in the bottom of the stack
instead of blocking your images or
something you need for the current page.
So, yeah, it's built-in browser
technology on modern browsers,
I believe it's supported in like Edge,
Firefox, Chrome, all the modern browsers.
So it should be and in it like fail
silently and browsers don't support it.
So there's no harm in putting it in.
This will work on any technology.
But again it's nice to
just have it done for.
[LAUGH] Any other questions?
Go ahead.
>> Student2: Can you explain the how
the GraphQL scheming gets generated and
whenever we install a new Gatsby plugin,
is it possible to modify the schema?
>> Jason Lengstorf: It is, yes and yes.
So the way that the schema is generated,
let's see what would be
an easy example for this.
So if I just go to the Gatsby node APIs,
we have,
>> Jason Lengstorf: Source nodes here.
And so, what's source nodes will do is,
the APIs, like the source plugin
is basically you're gonna say like,
hey, Instagram give me posts.
And then the posts are gonna come back and
they ultimately end up in some
kinda of JSON-like data structure.
There's a couple things that you
have to add, you need a node ID,
you need to set a parent and children,
and a couple of these things.
It needs a type and a content digest and
I think the rest of it is optional.
And then you can use
this create node action
to put that into our GraphQL layer.
So when you create a my node type,
this is going to tell Gatsby that
we need to have my node type query.
And then all my node type query
where you're able to query for
whatever is in here.
In this case,
you would have the key, foo and bar.
That is the kind of very,
very quick version of how that works.
You're also able to listen for
like they're a bunch of different
API s in here,
all of which enabled different things.
So you can create pages,
we're able to create resolvers,
you can look for when a different
data node is created and extended,
that's a pretty powerful thing to do.
This is how, for example, like
the sharp transformer is gonna look for
any file nodes to get created and
then determine whether or
not there are images and
if so do more stuff to them.
There is a whole workshop's worth
of material on how to build source
plugins and manipulate data, so I'm not
gonna be able to go super deep on that.
But the short answer is if
you dig through this page and
then look at existing source plugins, you
can see how they're using these different
APIs to do all of those different things
to get data into Gatsby's GraphQL layer.
If you want to customize that schema,
you're able
to use our new schema customization API,
which is only a couple months old here.
And this will allow you to
straight up define a thing.
If you want to say,
I'm gonna have an author type and
I want that to be mapped to this data and
throw it in, you can do anything.
It can be completely custom, you could
like one way that we're looking at this
is really exciting to us is if you wanted
to you could define a generic blog type.
And then you could write a series
of resolvers that would say map
a WordPress blog to the generic blog type.
Or like Drupal or markdown all to
generic blog types, which means that you
would write your posts like your Gatsby
sites using a generic type, the blog type.
So if you were to start in markdown, and
then your site grows up and it scales and
you hire people.
And they don't know how to write markdown,
they want to use some kind of a CMS,
if you map that CMS to the generic blog
type, you don't have to change any
of the code in your site, because the
queries are all against the generic type.
And that means that the code
is completely portable,
even if you totally change the back end.
So that type of stuff is starting
to come down the pipeline,
we're starting to play with ideas and
proofs of concept on that.
If you want to ping me on Twitter or
send me an email or something,
I will happily send you a ton of examples.
But we don't have time for it now.
>> Student2: Is there a story for
card screens or
any kind of dynamically generated data?
>> Jason Lengstorf: Yeah, we have,
like for dynamic apps you mean?
>> Student2: Yeah,
I mean like an admin interface would have
the database returning stuff.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Sure, yeah, so there
are handful of sites that have done this.
I'm trying to think of one
that's a good example.
So Like our our Swag Store
is using dynamic data.
We've also seen a couple people
build dashboards with Gatsby.
Gatsby itself has a dashboard
that's built in Gatsby.
But the way that that works is anything
that you can build at build time,
we encourage you to do so.
If you can get that data and you know
that the data changes relatively and
frequently, grab it ahead of time, stick
it into a page and you're good to go.
If you've got something that is
hard to build ahead of time or
that you shouldn't build
ahead of time like user data,
then instead you would want
to do that asynchronously.
And we have dynamic routing.
So Gatsby, what is it dynamic routes,
you are able to set up a what we
would call like a hybrid app or
like a client only app
where you can say hey,
anything that's under the app directory.
Just treat that like a regular react app,
don't try to do any serve
side rendering or anything.
And for client side stuff like
a loading user data or whatever,
that's a completely reasonable
way to approach that problem.
Because you wouldn't be,
you wouldn't wanna build out like all that
user data in the static files, anyways,
it's a kind of security problem.
So that's one way to solve that, another
way we've seen that solved is you can wrap
your entire Gatsby app with a provider for
Apollo, or for
Axios if you wanted to rest calls.
However you decide that
makes the most sense.
And you're able to kind of use
static data where you've got it and
make dynamic calls where you needed.
If you use either in
class base components,
you would use like componentDidMount or
in React Hooks, you would use use effect.
You're able to say like dynamic
staff happens in this component.
But because componentDidMount and
use effect don't fire during a server side
rendering phase, they just get ignored
during server side rendering which means
that the component would render in its
loading state or in its empty state.
And once it rehydrates into React
that would just repopulate with
whatever the dynamic content was.
So that's kind of,
that's the way that you would approach
that problem in a completely static world.
You could also, there's nothing
stopping you from building most of your
site as a Gatsby app, and then having
some server driven routes if it was
really highly sensitive
like a stock ticker.
Probably wouldn't make a ton of
sense to be built in Gatsby.
But you could have a component
that's just completely dynamic that
receives the new stock data in real time.
Or if you wanted to have a whole page
dedicated to that, you could just build
a server side rendered page and
is only for the stock picker.
My preference is to try to avoid standing
up servers whenever I don't have to.
So I like the idea of just rendering
it in the client when it's
when it's client only data.
Your mileage may vary,
it's going to depend on use case.